# Metabolic flux analysis informed by CNN predicted relative fluxes

A metabolic flux analysis (MFA) has been applied on _in vivo_ data in 

This approach was used to evaluate CNN by back calculation of MIDs from CNN predicted fluxes and comparing them with experimental MIDs. In addition, we are able to compare serine fluxes between two compartments. Since CNN predicts fluxes relatively in each compartment, comparing a similar flux but from two compartments is not possible. In CNN and in our previous MFA model4, fluxes of serine sources were added to 1 in each compartment, hence comparing fluxes in the same compartment was achievable. For example, we observed cortex has a higher de novo synthesis flux than plasma uptake flux. However, from the previous analysis, one cannot conclude whether de novo synthesis flux is higher in cortex or glioma. It is good to note that an MFA alone is highly underdetermined, and many solutions are possible. In addition, MFA assumes isotopic steady state opposed to CNN framework.
The MFA informed by CNN model comprises two compartments cortex and glioma. Reactions used in MFA model are similar to serine simulation model (table X). Both compartments have their own PG pool to synthesize serine de novo. A circulating serine pool is also available for both compartments. Based on our modified scFEA analysis which shows there is a net flux from cortex to glioma, we also added a TME-derived serine pool for glioma compartment. An unlabeled serine source was also added to both compartments to include serine sources from protein breakdown and autophagy25,48. Since serine model includes cleavage reactions, MFA balance equations are written on isotopomers which results in introducing more variables than equations. To reduce the model uncertainty, we added 4 linear constraints:
•	Fluxes of serine sources in glioma are set to CNN predicted relative fluxes (sum of serine sources equals 1). This adds 3 linear equality constraints for de novo serine synthesis, plasma serine uptake, and TME-derived serine uptake.
•	Ratio of de novo serine synthesis to total serine synthesis in cortex is set to CNN prediction. This adds 1 linear equality constraint.
Model parameters consist of fluxes and isotopomers of plasma serine and PG, serine, glycine, and MTHF in glioma and cortex. For the metabolites inside the compartments, we balanced fluxes by stoichiometry coefficients assuming that fluxes are at steady state. Isotopomers of metabolites inside the compartments are also balanced assuming that they are at steady state. The model parameters are initialized randomly 10 times within the range of 0 and 1. We set the initial values of unlabeled serine uptake fluxes to 0 to prevent overestimation of unlabeled pools. Parameters are optimized to minimize the differences between experimentally measured MIDs and MIDs estimated by MFA as described below.
